so it's already kind of looking like
it's got the general form of a head we
just need to add in the specific
topological features which will allow us
to animate the structure later on one of
the first pictures I would actually do
is the eyes so right now as you can see
I'm moving these vertices back to kind
of make section of four faces which
mirror a little bit of what the eye
socket would actually be the second
let's see here as long i'm going to take
these faces i'm actually going to remove
them out by extruding first and then
producing a new section moving these
faces forward these vertices forward to
produce the ridge along in front of the
nose and also along the cheek also going
to try and get these lines to sink a
little bit more with the mouth quickly
but here we go put pink just a little
bit in together by the nose and there we
go these four faces here let's take
these and let's extrude them to produce
some better result just make sure these
vertices are the correct spot first and
and it just takes a while to find that
exact spot that you need so switch the
face component mode grab those faces
that i was talking about and then we'll
get the extrude the selected component
feature and extrude these in words there
it is now switch the scale tool and
scale it all the way into the eyes and
from the front ortho view i'm now going
to enter the vertex component mode and
retrace this along the edge of the eye
once I have these in place we'll take a
look at how it works from the side of
you and make sure that the two views are
corresponding together and as you can
see they're not exact but we can fudge
it around a little bit if needed i also
want to pull these back along the edge
and eventually this upper eyelid fold
we're going to want overhanging slightly
over the lower i will look at that as we
extrude out some more features later
we're now kind of on a step we were
looking very specifically at the I we're
done working with the whole head
building eyes I kind of consider the
third step of this process the first was
making the box the second was shaping it
to the skull and the third step here is
you see is getting these eyes in place
now that was a good time to save out
your file I'm going to be doing this
temporarily just hitting ctrl s just so
I don't lose my progress you'll also
notice that from time to time I come in
and will be softening out my normals to
get rid of the hard edges from the
extrusions and also deleting my history
just to make sure that my history is not
piling up and I don't have a whole list
of inputs movies back to again trying to
find out that brow Ridge a little bit
more exactly with those orthos and again
these are thumbs come from 3d skn it can
be downloaded with the membership and
again the skull comes from high-end 3d
calm
what you see now is before I put the Sun
I together I really feel I need to get
an eyeball so I've made a nurbs here and
I'm going to scale it and put it into
place to work with my polygon model
which I'm of course currently box
modeling to put this in place right in
the eye and I like to rotate it forward
so it kind of works like a target along
the center of the pupil well just
position this into place and give me a
really good sort of heads up as to what
I need to do to get around this eyeball
so I'll fudge it around just a little
bit now I can see what's poking out here
jump in a wireframe view quickly just to
move that around there we go that's
about as close as I can get it I might
need to add a little bit more geometry
to this model in a bit to get that
working a little better but again this
is just looking at how to build a basic
head and how to get the base topology in
see these points here I don't want be
able to see back into the eyes I'm going
to push these around to conform them to
the shape of that eyeball next step is
I'm going to use the Select border edge
tool double click on this whole border
edge as you can see it lights up this
whole section and now I'll be able to
extrude this in directly into the I not
going to seal off any any openings that
we had had
using the insert edge loop tool now it
will expand out a couple of edge loops
push this back into form a crease for
the upper eyelid edge and I'll push down
as well so that my upper eyelid which is
going to be a little bit more defined on
the top is a little bit less defined on
the bottom so I'm going to get rid of
this cream specs is pushing those points
down here along the bottom edge I don't
want that to be as harsh and with the
eyes to seem very puffy one of things
about the islands is you're working with
them is you got to make sure that the
inside part of the eye the park closer
to the notice is higher than it would be
towards the middle line and that the
part further away from the eye on the
low side is the lowest that it goes and
so you don't have a perfectly
symmetrical football shape one of things
I'd like to do as well as I continue to
build this upper eyelid and lower eyelid
is that I want to make in this
corner that I'm starting to get it a
little bit of an overhang on these
points because the upper eyelid actually
does overhang that lower eyelid just a
little bit at get a third edge loop onto
this and now I'll really start to be
able to get this overhang happening go
and pinch this back in a little bit now
it's really going to start working and
my eyes do kind of puff out a little bit
too much towards the sides but we can
take care of that later one more EDS
loop here don't define that cavity and I
think we're pretty good move around some
of these vertices make sure we got the
depth coming from the upper I eyebrow
area and will soften our normals here in
just the second there we go looking
pretty good and we've now been able to
complete the eye in this next section
we're going to look at manipulating the
faces along the mouth and we'll start
your by pushing around the nose a little
bit
but I really want to take a look here at
the mouth so that we can get similar
edge loop functionality built